Today's video is about functional marketing strategies.
The lecture consists of three parts.
In the first part, we will first look at the relationship between the corporate strategy and the company,
the marketing strategy and the main functional marketing strategies.
Then we will look at the main features and algorithms for forming functional marketing strategies.
In the second part, we will look at the features of the formation of functional marketing strategies
in the case when the company operates in the business-to-business market,
that is, when our client is a company.
In the third part, we will look at the features of the formation of functional marketing strategies in the service sector.
The main goal of this video lecture is to teach you how to make marketing decisions
regarding functional marketing strategies,
including in the case when the company operates in the business-to-business market or in the service sector.
Let's move on to the first section.
First, let's look at the relationship between the corporate strategy and the company,
the marketing strategy and the functional marketing strategies.
Pay attention to the slide.
In the slide, you can see that the marketing strategy of the company is based on the corporate strategy.
The marketing strategy, in turn, has such a fundamental element as the positioning strategy,
which involves placing the company, its goods or brands in the consciousness of the buyer in a certain place
or a certain position relative to the competitors.
Next, the branding strategy is based on the positioning strategy.
Below, you can see that the branding strategy, in turn, involves the formation of functional strategies,
such as distribution strategies, communication strategies, product and price strategies.
Please note that the types of functional marketing strategies correspond to the elements of the marketing mix,
that is, 4P – goods, product promotion, goods price and distribution.
Let's move on to the branding strategy.
The branding strategy is a long-term plan for the use of the brand within the framework of the company's marketing strategy.
The branding strategy defines the focus and direction of the company's brand management
and represents a set of strategic brand solutions.
The algorithm for the brand formation is as follows.
First, the market segmentation is carried out.
We select the segment of buyers for whom we will offer goods under our brand.
Then we form the so-called brand identity.
What is the brand identity?
First of all, it is its difference from the brands of competitors.
The difference of the brand should be formulated in terms of advantages.
Then we position our brand,
that is, we place it in a certain place in the consumer's consciousness regarding the brands of competitors.
Also, an integral part of the brand identity is its so-called attributes.
The brand attributes are, first of all, the characteristics of the product that we sell under a certain brand,
the characteristics of the marketing communication associated with this brand,
and the formal characteristics of the brand.
Under the formal characteristics of the brand, the brand name,
the brand colors and other formal characteristics are understood,
including the musical accompaniment, which is typical of the advertising messages about this brand.
Let's consider the main types of branding strategies.
Pay attention to the slide.
Here you see a diagram, where the main opportunities for the formation of a branding strategy are shown.
At a certain point, the company can decide to change something in its branding management.
And quite often, a decision is made to expand the boundaries of the brand's use.
Pay attention to the slide.
Here you see what types of branding strategies can be used to expand the boundaries of the brand's use.
The first type of branding strategy for expanding the boundaries of the brand's use
is the use of the brand within one product category.
Let's consider the first option.
It is the extension of the product line.
What does it mean?
Most often, the extension of the product line means that we add a new product to the assortment,
which has a new taste or a new packaging size.
You can see an example on the slide, how the juice manufacturer Fruit Garden added a new taste to its assortment.
This is an example of the extension of the product line.
The extension of the product line can be done not only by changing the taste,
adding a new taste to the product,
but also by changing the packaging size or the type of packaging of the product.
What are the advantages of this strategy?
First of all, by adding a new type of product to the assortment,
the company increases the number of customers,
which means that the number of people whose preferences can be satisfied with the product under our brand.
In addition, having a large number of modifications of the product,
the company can increase the share of the shelf.
The next option is the vertical extension of the brand's boundaries.
Pay attention to the example on the slide.
The vertical extension of the brand's boundaries can occur both up and down.
If we extend the boundaries of the brand up,
it means that we offer a new product under our brand,
which has a higher price and greater advantages.
In this case, you can see how the company Kimberly Clark,
the manufacturer of the Huggies diapers,
offered a new product under the Huggies diapers,
under the Huggies Supreme brand.
This product has a higher quality and a higher price,
and is designed for a different target segment of the customer.
In the case of the vertical extension of the brand's boundaries,
the company usually adds the so-called descriptors to the brand.
This is a word that is added to the main brand itself,
and explains to the customer that this product is of a higher quality and belongs to the premium segment.
Here you can see that the Supreme descriptor is added to the Huggies brand.
Other descriptors can be added,
explaining that the product has a higher price and higher quality.
For example, gold, premium, platinum,
and other similar descriptors that you have probably encountered.
If the company extends the boundaries of the brand down,
it means that the company includes its product under the same brand,
but which has a lower quality or is more simplified,
that is, it has simpler characteristics and is offered at a lower price.
In our example, you can see how the manufacturer of the Huggies diapers offers the buyer a cheaper version of the Huggies Classic.
These products are sold at a lower price and have simpler characteristics,
designed for the high-price segment.
In these cases, the descriptors are usually such words as Econome, Economy, or Classic.
But not all companies implement the strategy of expanding the boundaries of the brand up or down.
In some cases, the company comes to the conclusion that this is unacceptable.
Let's look at the following examples.
Unilever, the manufacturer of Lipton tea, decided to offer tea for the buyer's segment with a higher price sensitivity.
But it decided that using the same brand for this segment was unacceptable.
Therefore, the company used a multi-brand approach and offered a new brand for the low-price segment.
You can see on the slide this is the BeSeda brand.
When Toyota decided to offer a product for the high-price segment,
it also decided to abandon the strategy of expanding the boundaries of the brand.
A new brand was created.
You can see the photo.
This is the well-known Lexus brand.
The next strategy is to expand the boundaries of the trademark to other product categories.
One of the most famous examples of a company using its brand for a large number of product categories is Disney.
Disney trademark is used for a large number of products.
This includes children's clothing, toys, food, and even MP3 players.
But not all cases of expanding the boundaries of the brand to other product categories can be successful.
There are cases when a certain brand is not associated with a certain product category.
Let's take the following example.
When Samsung decided to produce a car, it turned out that this was not the right decision.
Because the buyer cannot imagine buying a car under the brand name Samsung.
The next trademark strategy is a joint branding.
This is a situation when two companies promote their brands at the same time.
What are the advantages of this strategy?
First of all, the advantage of the economic scale.
Because when two brands promote at the same time, the company saves money.
But there is a problem.
There can be disagreements between companies when promoting.
If companies have different goals, they may not reach a compromise in promoting their brands.
One of the most popular examples is a joint branding of brands such as Coca-Cola and McDonald's.
What are the advantages and disadvantages of other strategies?
The strategy of extending the product line has the advantage that companies get more customers.
But at the same time, the company's costs increase.
And there is a risk of so-called commodity cannibalism.
When buyers start to buy a new product, but at the same time refuse to buy the old one.
The main disadvantage of vertical branding is the image of the company and its brand.
Consumers begin to doubt the quality of the offered goods, even if it is a product that is sold at a higher price.
When the brand's borders are extended, the following problem may occur.
The fact is that not all new products, even if they are sold at a higher price,
and have a premium descriptor, will be perceived by buyers as a product of higher quality.
Because the main brand, which is in the middle price category,
will reduce the image and will not allow buyers to assume that the product,
even if it has a prestigious descriptor, is of a high price segment and has the appropriate quality.
There are situations when a company needs to make radical decisions about its brand.
When it is impossible to continue the business as before.
In this case, the so-called brand recovery occurs.
The brand recovery can be carried out in several ways.
The first way is the so-called brand reanimation.
The brand reanimation can be carried out in several directions.
First, we can offer a product under our brand to other segment of buyers.
Or we can offer a new area of application of our brand.
An example here is the Johnson & Johnson company,
which decided at a certain stage of its development to offer Baby Oil not only for use in care for children,
but also for use by adults.
This is a typical example of brand reanimation.
Also, a company can stimulate the intensity of consumption of a product under a certain brand.
In addition to brand reanimation, a company can carry out a strategy of consolidation of brands.
In this case, a company introduces a new brand to the market.
But what to do with an old brand?
There are several possible solutions.
The first option is a gradual overthrow of the old brand.
When a company offers two brands, both new and old,
but the old one gradually leaves the market.
The second option is when the old brand is instantly removed from the market
and it is assumed that it no longer exists.
And the third option is so-called internal co-branding,
when a company uses two brands at the same time.
When a company really faces big problems in its management of trading brands,
it is necessary to make a decision about brand repositioning.
How can repositioning take place?
First, a company needs to change the perception of its brand.
It can be both real and psychological repositioning.
What does real repositioning mean?
In this case, a company usually changes something in its product to improve its quality, for example.
And the buyer really begins to perceive the product in a different way,
and its repositioning changes.
There is also psychological repositioning.
First of all, this is due to the fact that the product is perceived by the buyer in a wrong way.
For example, it happens that the buyer is not sufficiently aware of the product
and, let's say, considers it expensive, although in fact this product is available to the buyer.
In this case, psychological repositioning occurs.
That is, the company announces to the client that the product is actually available
and emphasizes this in its advertising messages.
If repositioning is not enough, the company does rebranding,
that is, a drastic change of the image.
In this case, not only the positioning of the brand, but also its ideology changes,
and the formal attributes of the brand also change.
Now let's move on to the consideration of the company's product strategy.
One of the main elements of the product strategy is the strategy of developing new products.
What are new products?
There are several types of new products.
First of all, these are the so-called world's new products,
that is, really new products that never existed and that no one has ever offered.
The second option is new product lines.
In this case, a new product is actually new only for the company itself,
but these products already exist on the market, but they are offered by other companies.
The third option of a new product is the expansion of existing product lines,
when within a certain product category, which is no longer new for the company,
new modifications are offered.
The next type of new product is when the improvement of existing products in the company occurs.
The difference from the expansion of existing product lines is that
in the case of expansion of existing product lines,
a new product assumes that the old product will also remain in the assortment
and there will be buyers who prefer the old product.
In the case of improvement, it is assumed that a new improved product will completely replace the old one.
The next option of a new product is a repositioning product,
that is, in fact, it is the same product of the company, only positioned differently.
Another option of a new product is a situation when the company offers a product at a reduced price.
This means that a product, perhaps more simplified, is produced with less costs
and is offered to a wider circle of buyers, because it has a lower price.
Only 10% of new products are actually world-class novelties.
The remaining 90% of new products are either new products for companies,
that is, new product lines, or an expansion of existing product lines, or an improvement.
There are companies that specialize in the production of world-class novelties.
These are the well-known companies 3M, Microsoft, Sony and others.
But not all new products are accepted by the market.
According to statistics, 95% of new products are unsuccessful.
What are the reasons for the failure of new products?
First, there are often situations when a new product is not needed by the consumer
and is a favorite idea or a dream of the company owner or top manager.
Therefore, this idea is promoted and the product begins to be developed and produced.
The next reason for failure is market overestimation,
when marketers have not studied the demand and needs of buyers enough.
As a result, a new product is not needed by the buyer or they are not ready to buy it at the proposed price.
Another reason for failure is a wrong communication strategy,
when buyers are simply not aware of the appearance of a new product.
Let's look at the algorithm of the development of a new product.
The first stage of the algorithm is the formation of ideas.
How do ideas for new products form?
First, people can be the source of ideas.
First, the company itself and its employees,
who can identify some imperfections or assume that the change in the product will please the buyer.
But, of course, the main source of the idea of ​​new products is the buyer.
The company must establish a system of obtaining information from the buyer
about what changes they would like to make in the product and what are the features of their preferences,
to offer the buyer exactly what they really need.
In addition to obtaining information about new products from employees or customers of the company,
there are a number of methods that allow developers to propose new ideas.
These methods are briefly discussed in the lecture.
The next stage of the development of a new product is the selection of ideas.
The selection of ideas is a very important stage.
The selection of ideas is carried out according to the following principles.
First, it is checked whether there are really needs that need to be satisfied with this product.
Second, it is checked whether it is possible to produce a product with such costs
and set such a price on it so that it corresponds to the quality of the product and is acceptable to the buyer.
In addition, it is necessary to consider whether the company has production experience for the production of such a product.
In addition, it is necessary to consider the estimated volume of sales
in order to understand whether it is reasonable to produce this product.
When selecting ideas, the company can make a mistake.
Mistakes when selecting ideas are divided into two groups.
A type of yes means that the company accepts the idea as good,
but it is not really reasonable.
A type of no means that the company rejects the idea and the product is not sold.
The next stage of the development of a new product is the development of the concept of the product.
The development of the concept involves answering three basic questions.
What, who and how?
What does it mean? How will the product look like?
What characteristics will it have?
What will it represent?
The answer to the question who assumes who will purchase and use this product,
what will the consumers buy this product for,
and the question how assumes how the product will be used and how it will satisfy the needs of the buyer.
It is extremely necessary for the company to analyze the opportunities of the production of a new product and its sale.
This is determined by the estimated volume of sales, the estimated cost and the estimated profit of the company.
Finally, one of the last stages is the testing of the new product.
There can be two types of testing of the new product.
The so-called alpha testing and beta testing.
The alpha testing assumes that the product is tested by the company employees.
The beta testing assumes that the product is offered for testing by the real buyer.
The next element of the product strategy is the assortment strategy.
As part of the assortment strategy, it is necessary to make decisions on the following elements.
First, the width of the assortment.
How many product categories will the company produce?
Second, the depth of the assortment.
How many modifications or variants of the product will the company offer within each product category?
Then, the decision on the increase of the assortment.
Will the company offer products at a higher price and higher quality or at a lower price and higher quality,
compared to the frames that it uses now?
The assortment saturation assumes that the company adds new products to its assortment,
but in the price frames that are already used.
That is, there is no increase in the assortment, neither up nor down.
Now let's move on to the price strategy.
The price strategy is closely related to the concept of price positioning.
What is price positioning?
Pay attention to the slide.
Here you see the so-called value map.
The value map is a model used to carry out the company's price positioning.
You see that on one axis we have the perceived price of the product.
Here we should consider the perceived price, not the actual price of the product.
Pay attention to this.
On the other axis we have the perceived quality of the product.
Again, we should evaluate the quality of our product and compare it with the quality of the competitor's product
not by some formal signs, but by the perception of the buyer.
You see that the so-called VAL line is represented on the graph.
This is the line of all points that assume that the goods located on it
have an adequate or equivalent ratio of the perceived price and perceived quality.
How can goods be positioned on the value map?
Look at the slide.
The first option.
You see that goods A, B and C are located on the line of the equivalent value.
This situation is called ideal and exists only when the buyers are aware of all offers on the market.
In this case, you see that the company offers several goods in different price categories.
Cheaper goods have lower quality,
more expensive goods have higher perceived quality.
But the ideal situation is not always real.
Sometimes the buyers are not aware of the goods,
do not adequately evaluate their quality or do not know what goods are available on the market.
In this case, it is possible to position the company not on the line of the equivalent value, but beyond it.
You can see that goods C is located above the VAL line.
This means that the perceived price of this product is higher than its perceived quality,
that is, it does not correspond to the perceived price.
This position is not very convenient for the company,
because in this case it is more profitable for the buyer to buy goods D,
because it has a higher perceived quality.
You can also see that goods B is located below the line of the equivalent value.
This means that its perceived quality is higher than its perceived price,
that is, it is the most profitable offer for the buyer.
If the company plans to position its goods on the market, there are several strategies.
Pay attention to the slide.
You can see that in this case the goods of the company, new goods,
are positioned on the line of the equivalent value in the mid-price segment.
In this case, the goods occupy a free niche,
and competitors should not react aggressively to this action.
The second option is to position new goods in the already occupied segment.
In this case, it is possible that the competitors will react unpredictably.
The third option is when the company positions its goods in a higher price segment,
in an unoccupied place.
In this case, there is the following danger.
Perhaps this niche is not yet occupied,
because there is no group of buyers who are ready to purchase this product at such a high price.
Despite the higher offered quality.
And the fourth option is when a new product is positioned below the line of the equivalent value.
In this case, its perceived quality is higher than its perceived price.
This situation is very profitable for the company,
but it can have predictable consequences.
The consequences can be as far as the line of the equivalent value is displaced.
That is, buyers will no longer perceive the price-quality ratio as adequate and old,
and will consider that all companies must offer higher quality at a lower price.
Now let's move on to price strategies,
each of which corresponds to a certain price positioning.
You can see the same price map on the slide, but in a slightly different representation.
Here you see that the price map is divided into 4 segments.
Each of these segments corresponds to a certain price strategy.
The first option is the so-called economic price strategy,
when the company offers a fairly low perceived quality at a fairly low price.
When the company offers a product of a high perceived quality at a high price,
this strategy is called a premium.
There are two more options for price strategies.
One of the strategies assumes that the company offers a product of medium or low perceived quality at a fairly high price.
In this case, the perceived price does not correspond to the perceived quality of the product.
This strategy is called a premium.
In what cases can this price strategy be used?
First, to use this strategy, it is necessary that there are buyers on the market
who are ready to purchase a product at such a high price.
Secondly, this product must have a certain novelty,
which would attract innovator buyers and make them pay a higher price.
In addition, the company must understand that its product can be copied by competitors
and they can offer it at a lower price.
Therefore, only those products that are difficult to copy or that the competitors will spend a sufficient period of time on copying are suitable for the strategy of removing the plums.
Another price strategy is the so-called penetration strategy on the market.
The penetration strategy assumes that the company offers a product of high or medium quality at a fundamentally low price.
In this case, the product is positioned below the equivalent value line.
In what cases can this strategy be used?
First, this strategy is suitable for situations when there are a sufficient number of buyers of the perceived price on the market.
In addition, this strategy is suitable for situations when the company can save on a large scale.
And it is also extremely necessary that the low price for the product does not cause buyers doubts in its quality
and they do not refuse to purchase the product.
Now let's look at the types of price strategies in terms of price standardization.
Here, the company can use two main types of strategies.
The first option is the single price strategy.
In this case, the company offers all its customers the same prices for a certain product.
The second option is the so-called price discrimination or differentiated pricing,
when the company offers its product to different groups of buyers at different prices.
The main problem in the framework of price discrimination is the construction of so-called barriers,
that is, the creation of differences between the products that we sell to different groups of buyers at different prices.
These differences can be both real and perceived, that is, they can have an exclusively subjective nature.
Now let's look at what price strategies can be used by the market leaders.
The market leader can use the so-called market pressure strategy.
In this case, the leader sets low prices for his product,
and it turns out that competitors can no longer set prices higher,
and they are forced to keep their prices at a lower level.
In this case, the leader can actually survive from the market of all his competitors,
if they have higher costs and cannot afford to implement products at low prices.
The next option is opportunistic pricing,
when the market leader, on the contrary, sets the highest prices for his products.
Now let's look at what price strategies can be used not by manufacturers, but by trading companies.
There are two most interesting types of price strategies for retail companies.
These are the so-called low price strategy every day and high and low price formation.
What does this strategy suggest?
The low price strategy every day suggests that a retail company offers its products to buyers
at prices that are, on the one hand, lower than the average market price,
but on the other hand, they are higher than the retail price, that is, as low as possible.
In fact, it would be more correct to call this strategy the low price strategy.
What are the advantages of the low price strategy every day?
First, the stable low prices create a sense of fairness for the buyer,
and, as a rule, these companies have a positive image.
In addition, the company does not create a problem of delayed purchases.
In the case when a buyer constantly expects a sale,
he often postpones his purchases and does not buy the product at the proposed higher price today.
In this case, when the buyer does not need to wait for anything,
and because the company does not use the practice of sales,
the buyer does not postpone his purchases, and this does not create a problem of demand fluctuations for the company.
In addition, the advantage of this strategy is the reduction of advertising costs.
Companies that constantly hold sales are forced to inform their buyers about the fact of holding a sale,
and this advertising costs a fairly large budget.
In this case, this is not necessary.
In addition, there is a version that companies that use the low price strategy every day offer a higher level of service.
What is the reason for this?
When companies use sales, it happens that at a certain point in time there are a large number of people in the store.
Accordingly, this does not allow the staff to provide a high enough level of service to all incoming buyers.
In addition, a large number of people is not always pleasant for incoming customers.
When using the low price strategy every day, such phenomena usually do not occur.
Now let's look at the strategy called high and low price education.
High and low price education implies that a retail company uses both high and low prices.
This means that on a permanent basis, buyers are offered higher prices,
but sales are held periodically when goods are offered at the lowest possible price.
And this price is usually lower than the price in companies that use the low price strategy every day.
What are the positive features of this strategy?
First, the advantage here is that the company covers several segments of buyers.
On the one hand, it attracts those buyers who believe that it is necessary to buy goods at higher prices,
expecting them to be of higher quality.
On the other hand, the company attracts those buyers who are most sensitive to prices
and would like to purchase goods as cheaply as possible.
There is also a version that the very atmosphere of the sale attracts buyers.
And in addition to those goods that are sold at the moment at a low price,
buyers also purchase other goods at higher prices,
which, in general, increases the volume of sales and profits of the company.
But, as we have already said, the strategy of high and low prices implies that
during the sale period, the level of services in the company usually decreases.
Positioning is a very subjective aspect,
and the company should not always change some real characteristics,
objective in its proposal, to change its positioning.
How can you manage the positioning of your brand or product?
First, the company can change the perceived price level.
How can this happen?
The fact is that buyers do not really know the price well,
and if you tell them that this price is low, they will most likely believe you.
What tactics do companies use in these cases?
How can companies manage the perception of price levels?
First, it is established that buyers do not really know the prices of different goods.
On average, the number of goods of a certain category,
the prices at which the buyer knows quite accurately, is 3.5 goods.
This is statistics, so we get 3.5.
And in order to manage the perception of the price level,
the company can tell the buyer whether this price is medium, high or low.
This often happens when the company offers the buyer to compare this low price with another, higher one.
As a rule, the comparison occurs either with the previous price of the product,
which was higher, or with the price of the competitor's product, or with the average price in the city.
Also, the company uses such a tool, which is called top-down pricing.
In this case, in the trading room, the goods are located in the order of decreasing price.
When the buyer enters the store, he first sees the most expensive goods of a certain category.
And only by moving further, he gradually finds more and more cheap options.
In this case, the buyer gets the impression that the average price, or the adequate price,
is higher for this product, than if he first saw a cheaper product, and only then a more expensive one.
Now let's move on to the consideration of the company's communication strategy.
Let's consider the algorithm of communication strategy formation.
First of all, the company must formulate the goals of communication with the buyers.
The goals must be formulated quantitatively.
For example, the goal of communication can be to increase awareness of a certain product
by a certain percentage among a certain group of buyers.
What does creative strategy mean?
Creative strategy involves two elements.
First, it is the concept of communication itself,
what message the company wants to convey to the buyer,
that is, what is the main meaning of this message.
The second element of creative strategy is the creation of a direct message
with all the graphic elements, illustrations, with which it will be presented to the buyer.
One of the most complex elements of the algorithm of communication strategy formation
is the formation of the budget of communication.
What are the methods of budget formation?
One of the most common methods of budget formation of communication
is the method of percentage from a certain base.
The base can be used for both the company's revenue and marketing expenses.
That is, the budget of communication is calculated as a percentage
from all the expenses for marketing or from the company's revenue.
As a rule, there are certain standards in certain industries,
how much the average company in this industry spends on communication with buyers.
In some cases, the budget of communication can reach 50% of the revenue.
The next method of budgeting of communication strategy
is the so-called competitive parity or comparison with competitors.
In this case, the company is focused on the expenses of competitors
and sets its budget at approximately the same level.
Or, if the company uses less or more budget than its competitors,
this decision must be justified.
The next method is the method of fixed amount,
when the company, as a rule, expertly decides that the budget will have a certain amount,
but this method is not optimal and is used less and less.
Also, one of the common methods of budget formation of communication
is the goal and task method.
In this case, the company tries to determine how much it needs to spend
in order to reach the set price.
For example, how much it needs to spend on advertising
in order to reach the level of the buyer's awareness.
The so-called marginal method is also used.
The marginal method uses the following pattern.
It is established that each additional ruble invested in communication
gives less and less effect.
The company tracks how much more profit the company brings
from each ruble invested in communication than from the investment.
At the moment when the company realizes that further investment in communication is not profitable,
the investment ends for a certain period.
Thus, the budget is formed for a certain period.
Next, you can see how the communication channels are selected.
The selection of communication channels with buyers depends on a number of factors.
You can see a table on the slide, where the main factors are presented,
which must be taken into account when choosing communication channels.
For example, we must take into account the price category of our product.
It is quite obvious that for products of a higher price category
it is unacceptable to use the same communication channels
as for products of the lowest price category.
One of the last stages of the communication strategy is the assessment of its effectiveness.
The assessment of communication effectiveness is carried out in several directions.
First, we analyze what results we have achieved from the market point of view,
what share of the target buyers is covered by our communication message.
Then we analyze what results we have achieved from the point of view of the buyer's motives,
whether the buyer's motives have changed after communicating with them.
We also analyze the effectiveness of the message itself,
whether the message is correct from the point of view of the fact that it is correctly understood by the buyers.
We also assess the effectiveness of the communication channels.
During the communication with the buyer, each company must track
which channels allow to attract the maximum number of new customers.
And, of course, the company evaluates the economic effect of the entire communication strategy,
namely, the profitability of communication.
In this case, it is estimated what additional profit
the company managed to get for every ruble invested in communication with the buyers.
Now let's look at the domestic strategy.
On the slide you can see the domestic strategy formation algorithm.
The company can form a domestic strategy for different purposes.
This can be the introduction to the new product market
or the introduction to the existing product market.
The company can also make changes to its domestic strategy when changing the environment.
One of the important stages in the formation of a domestic strategy
is the decision whether the company will use the direct distribution channel or not.
The direct distribution channel means that the company sells goods to the buyers directly,
that is, the company does not use the direct distribution channel.
The indirect distribution channel means that the company uses the direct distribution channel
to distribute its goods to the intermediaries.
In what cases is the indirect distribution channel used?
In order for the company to be able to use the indirect distribution channels most effectively,
the goods must be simple enough and not be distributed in a direct way.
The indirect distribution channels are also used in situations
when the buyers are geographically disorganized.
After the company has decided to use the indirect distribution channel
and select the intermediaries,
it is necessary to decide which marketing functions will be transferred to the intermediary.
The intermediary can perform marketing functions such as
maintaining the stock of goods,
promoting the goods,
taking on credit risks, and also repair and warranty service.
In each case, it is necessary to decide how much the intermediaries will be used.
In each case, there are advantages.
There is a tendency that large intermediaries serve the buyers worse.
Small intermediaries, in turn, have such disadvantages
that they cannot maintain large stock of goods due to their limitations.
The company must also decide which assortment will be implemented through each group of intermediaries.
There are different options.
There are cases when the company distributes the same assortment of goods through all intermediaries.
There are other cases when each intermediary is used to distribute a certain type of goods.
That is, the intermediaries do not intersect in the sale of certain goods.
After the company has decided what the distribution channel structure will be,
and which intermediaries it will use,
it is necessary to select specific companies that will perform the function of intermediaries.
There are quite a few criteria that must be taken into account when choosing an intermediary.
On the slide, you can see what characteristics a promising intermediary should have.
After the company starts working with intermediaries,
it is necessary to regularly evaluate their performance.
There is a quantitative methodology for evaluating the performance of intermediaries.
To use it, the company must select a number of parameters
according to which the efficiency of the intermediary's performance will be evaluated.
In this case, the parameters such as the volume of sales,
the average level of stock, the work of the staff, and so on, are selected.
Each parameter is assigned a certain weight, depending on the specific situation that the company is in.
After that, each intermediary is evaluated on a 10-point scale according to each criterion.
After that, a weighted assessment of each intermediary is calculated.
What problems can arise in the company when using indirect distribution channels?
First, a significant problem is that when using a direct distribution channel,
the company loses the point of contact with the client.
That is, the company does not see its end customers directly.
Thus, the speed of information transmission from the end customer to the company
is slowed down or the information may not reach the end customer at all.
Therefore, the company must independently establish interaction with the customers
to receive information and feedback on its products or services.
There are situations when the company loses information about the end seller of its products.
That is, the company does not know who is the last participant of the distribution channel
and who directly sells the goods to the end customer.
It is necessary to motivate intermediaries correctly.
A common situation is to motivate intermediaries using the so-called wick and gingerbread method.
This is a situation when the company provides intermediaries with certain advantages
if they meet the requirements and, on the contrary,
the company provides intermediaries with certain advantages if the requirements are violated.
But this approach can be effective only in the short-term.
According to modern ideas, each company needs to establish long-term partnership relations with its intermediaries
and this will allow optimizing the company's everyday activities.
The effectiveness of the everyday strategy is assessed by the following parameters.
The first one is the support of the sales and market share goals.
The second one is the support of the stock of goods.
The third one is the assurance that each intermediary has the goods in stock all the time.
The fourth one is the quality of the work with intermediaries.
Now we move on to the next section and look at the features of the marketing strategy
that the business-to-business market has.
This is when our clients are not private individuals but companies.
The next feature of the business-to-business market is that
the demand for industrial goods or services is production.
This means that the demand for industrial goods depends on the demand for those goods
that are produced using these goods or services.
In addition, the important feature of the B2B market is that there are fewer buyers.
This means that each buyer, each client is more valuable to the company
and the loss of even one client can significantly affect the volume of sales and the volume of the profit.
Another important feature is that the clients in the industrial market are usually professionals.
They have a large knowledge of the goods that are purchased
and do not use prices as a quality indicator because they have a high level of qualification.
Another feature is that the distribution channels in the industrial market are usually shorter.
It is also necessary to consider that when buying goods or services in the industrial market,
the buyer takes a greater risk.
What does this mean?
If a business buyer buys a low-quality product or receives low-quality services,
this can significantly affect its production process,
as well as stop production and the company will lose a large amount of profit.
This does not happen in the consumer market.
The salesman is also largely dependent on the buyer.
Each buyer is really important to the seller.
Another feature of the industry market is that a group of buyers decides on the sales.
The group of industrial buyers is usually called the procurement committee.
The procurement committees in different companies can have different forms.
This can be a group of procurement employees and a group of inter-functional procurement employees.
In the procurement committee, various employees have different roles.
These roles are highlighted as users,
buyers and buyers,
and the buyers filter the information received about the goods or services.
Users are those employees who will use the goods or services.
They formulate their needs.
The decision-making person is usually highly qualified and has good knowledge of the product.
They select the goods and decide what characteristics they should have.
The concept of marketing relationships arose in the B2B market.
Marketing relationships means that a long-term interaction between a client and a company is established.
This interaction is not limited to a single transaction.
In marketing relationships, the first priority is the quality of the goods and services.
The price is secondary.
In order to effectively implement marketing relationships,
a company must have a good reputation and support it.
The role of internal marketing in the industrial market cannot be overestimated.
Since direct distribution channels are most often used in the industrial market,
direct contact between buyers is carried out with the help of household staff.
Sales managers or householders must provide the client with the necessary information about the company.
They must understand the company's ultimate goal, its mission and the essence of the marketing strategy.
You can see the type of decision-making in the slide.
Pay attention to the fact that the most interesting for us is the purchase of new tasks.
When buying again, the decision-making algorithm is usually reduced.
Now let's see what are the differences between the decision-making algorithm in the industrial market and the one in the industrial market.
Here you can see that there are more stages.
In the industrial market, the search for information is more lengthy.
The maximum amount of information about the alternatives is collected,
which is usually not the case in the consumer market.
Often, the buyer makes a purchase without having any information about the alternatives.
Also, the alternative assessment is carried out in more detail.
Almost all characteristics of the offered goods or services are taken into account.
Let's see what factors of the alternative assessment are used in the B2B market.
In the slide, you can see a list of factors that French companies take into account when choosing their suppliers.
These factors were identified during the survey of a large number of companies.
Pay attention to the fact that the reputation of the company and its trust play a significant role here.
Now let's move on to the analysis of the features and functional marketing strategies in the B2B market.
The feature of the branding strategy is that the brand of the company plays a major role here,
not the brand of a specific product.
The feature of the product strategy is that the highest role of the brand is played here.
It should also be added that the introduction of new goods into the industrial market
is fundamentally different from the one in the consumer market.
If a final buyer buys a new product,
he usually does so out of curiosity or to satisfy his psychological needs.
The acquisition of a new product, technological innovation on the industrial market,
implies that the company can gain competitive advantage
by using the product when producing its own goods.
Thus, the industrial buyer is ready to pay higher prices for new products.
Therefore, the strategy of removing the cream is often used on the industrial market.
It should also be noted that the most important thing for an industrial buyer
is the rational characteristics of the product.
But it should not be forgotten that the decision-making of the purchase is made by people
who have their own emotional needs.
What emotional needs can satisfy the members of the purchasing committee?
There are situations when, when purchasing is made,
the purchasing committee tries to satisfy its own needs
by assuming that the purchase is successful and the product is correctly selected.
In addition, many employees need communication and friendly support.
Therefore, a friendly shoulder of the sales manager is often a free offer to the industrial product.
In addition, such a characteristic as a reduction of risk is important for industrial products.
In order to satisfy the emotional need of the business buyer in reducing the risk,
because business purchases are really important for companies
and the risk of making a mistake is high,
the company must use different tools.
Often, such guarantees are reviews of other buyers, received certificates, awards
and other awards.
What are the features of the home strategy in the industrial market?
First, a direct channel is often used in the industrial market.
In some cases, companies use both direct and indirect distribution channels.
Another feature is that the industrial market
is often a place of high risk, because industrial goods usually have more complex characteristics
and require more post-sales service.
What are the features of the price strategy?
As we have already said, the strategy of removing the cream is often used in the industrial market,
because more customers are ready to pay higher prices for new goods.
This is due to the fact that there are usually fewer customers in the industrial market.
If most of them purchase goods at a low price,
the company will not have the opportunity to compensate for this price reduction due to future sales.
It is also necessary to understand that industrial buyers and members of the purchasing committee
are well aware of all offers on the market and the prices for these offers.
Therefore, an industrial buyer has a much greater knowledge of prices
than a consumer buyer.
This reduces the price sensitivity.
It is also necessary to note that a differentiated price formation is often used in the industrial market.
In this case, it is easier to divide the segment of buyers and sell them goods with small modifications at different prices.
This is due to the fact that companies do not always know
at what prices the final sale of industrial goods is carried out,
because these prices are significantly different from the price of the products on the market.
It is also necessary to note the features of the price sensitivity factors in the industrial market.
Let's consider the first factor of price sensitivity – the perceived substitutes.
If a buyer is aware of the presence of substitutes,
he will be more sensitive to the price.
When the price is increased, for example, he will switch to a substitute, i.e. a competitor's product.
If on the consumer market many buyers are not aware of the presence of alternative products,
then on the industrial market, as a rule, the awareness is quite high.
If a company decides to increase prices,
it should understand that many business clients will switch to a competitor's product.
On the other hand, the price sensitivity in the industrial market is reduced due to the effect of a unique value.
It happens that the product is customized to the needs of a particular company,
and the company cannot switch to another supplier,
which is not a good thing.
The price sensitivity is reduced by such a factor as the difficulty of comparison.
If on the consumer market it is difficult for many buyers to compare alternative products
because they do not have sufficient knowledge,
on the industrial market, buyers, as a rule, have high qualifications and know the product well.
The price-quality ratio on the industrial market works much weaker than on the consumer market.
If a consumer does not have enough information about the quality of a product,
cannot evaluate it due to insufficient knowledge,
if a consumer often cannot evaluate the quality of a product based on its technical characteristics,
this buyer can evaluate the quality of the product based on the price.
On the industrial market, buyers are qualified enough to evaluate the quality objectively.
They do not need to use prices as indicators of quality.
There is also an effect of the level of consumption.
The higher the share of the consumer's consumption of a particular product, the higher the price sensitivity.
While the end customer usually buys a large number of products of different categories,
the industrial buyer buys a small set of products.
Therefore, it turns out that the share of the consumer's consumption of each product is high.
Another factor is the division of costs.
If the customer pays for his purchase, his price sensitivity is higher.
If the payment is made by someone else, the price sensitivity is reduced.
As on the industrial market, the decision of the purchase is made by members of the purchasing committee,
which does not spend their own money, it happens that their price sensitivity is reduced.
It is also necessary to consider the effect of stocks.
It is established that if a buyer can accumulate stocks of a particular product,
his price sensitivity will be higher.
The second factor is the role of personal sales.
The role of personal sales is much higher on the industrial market than on the consumer market.
The distribution channel is used much more often.
It is necessary to understand that personal sales are not a product of the individual.
The individual is a product of the individual.
Therefore, the manager of the sales does not communicate with the business client.
The client does not know the reputation of the company.
The reputation of the company is not known.
The reputation of the company is known.
Now we will move on to the third section, which is related to the features of marketing on the service market,
namely, the features of functional marketing strategies.
You have already seen the main features of decision-making on the acquisition of services in the General Marketing module.
Here we will consider the features of functional marketing strategies in the service sector.
We will consider the features of the marketing strategy.
In this case, the reputation of the company is of particular importance.
Why does this happen?
The fact is that the client who acquires a service cannot assess its quality in advance.
In addition, it is very difficult to compare the quality of different services, that is, the quality of the services of different suppliers.
In this regard, the risk of the buyer increases, and it is necessary to consider any factors that would reduce the uncertainty.
How can a company help to reduce this uncertainty?
How can a company improve its image?
In the service sector, the image of the company's head is often used.
In addition, companies in the service sector can participate in various professional associations,
especially if it concerns services in the B2B sphere.
Next, we will consider the features of the product strategy.
There is a concept of materialization of services.
Why is this materialization of services carried out?
There is a pattern that the more material the product is, the more emotional and non-material characteristics are used in its promotion.
And vice versa, the more material the product is, the more materialization is necessary.
How can the materialization of services be carried out?
First, a company can use customer feedback.
Also, many companies in the service sector have gorgeous offices
to materialize their services and create a reason for the customer to assume that the services are of high quality.
Many companies in the service sector use their customers' lists to confirm their services.
In addition, it is very important to provide a photo of the customer,
which tells about how the process of providing services is carried out,
what kind of people provide services.
In the slide, you can see an example of how a company providing a service of chemical cleaning
carries out the materialization of its services.
You can see that the colored circles are the factors that reflect the materialization.
In this case, the factors of materialization are the cleanliness of the product,
the packaging of the product, the room itself, where the chemical cleaning orders are made,
as well as the quality of the product and the accuracy of its filling.
These aspects allow the customer to draw a conclusion about the quality of the service provided,
because the customer may not always appreciate the quality of the service,
especially if it is a professional service.
Now let's look at the features of the price strategy in the service sector.
The fact is that many companies providing services have high constant costs,
but at the same time they have low variable costs.
The cost of service for each new customer is quite low.
At the same time, in this case, it is very important for the company to have a large sales volume,
that is, for the company to serve as many customers as possible.
In this case, there is such a risk.
The company understands that in order to compensate for the large amount of constant costs,
the price is often reduced.
As the companies compete, the price is reduced more and more,
resulting in price wars.
As a result, the companies will balance on the verge of maximum costs
and will not receive enough profit.
The first factor is the perceived substitute.
The fact is that the quality of the service cannot be standardized,
so the customer may not perceive the services of another company as similar.
Thus, a situation may arise when the customer does not see an alternative to the services of a certain company.
In this case, its price sensitivity will be low,
that is, when the price is increased, the customer will not use the services of another company.
Now let's consider the effect of price sensitivity as the effect of a unique value.
Since in fact each service is unique,
the price sensitivity of the customer who purchases the service will be quite low.
Now let's consider such a factor as the difficulty of comparison.
It is very difficult to compare the quality of different services.
Moreover, it is almost impossible to compare the quality of different services until the moment of providing the service.
Therefore, the price sensitivity of the customer in this case will be low,
because the customer cannot compare the quality of the service he is using now
and the quality of the service of another supplier.
Again, due to the fact that the customer cannot compare the quality of the services
and has little information about the quality of the services,
many customers begin to focus on the prices,
assuming that the services with higher prices have higher quality.
As for the effect of supply, it is quite obvious that the services cannot be stored.
Therefore, if a company reduces the price of its services,
it is impossible to expect that customers will create their stocks.
In this case, it affects the price sensitivity in a negative way,
that is, the price sensitivity will also be low.
Thus, we can conclude that in general,
the cost of the services will be very low.
As for the communication strategy,
it is extremely important to provide information about certain material characteristics of the service,
that is, to materialize.
A study was conducted, in which the content of advertising messages about goods and services was studied
and it was found that the characteristics of the services were mentioned much more often
than the guarantees, the price of the services and the territorial availability.
In the case of advertising of goods,
these characteristics were mentioned much less often.
As for the household strategy,
it is impossible to sell through indirect channels, that is, through intermediaries.
Therefore, in the vast majority of cases, a direct channel is used for the sale of services.
In this case, the special importance is given to the qualifications of the household staff,
that is, the managers for the sale of services.
It is also necessary to note the following features of marketing in the service sphere.
The most important thing is the quality of the service.
The quality of the service is more important than the quality of the goods.
It is necessary to emphasize the importance of internal marketing,
because the direct distribution channel is used.
Thus, the face of the company becomes its household staff.
If the services of a company are at risk,
they often refuse to switch and maintain the loyalty of the same company.
As we have already said, the reputation and image of the company are of fundamental importance for the service sphere.
Now let's compare the features of marketing in the B2B and service spheres.
Here we can see some common points.
First, in both cases, the face of the company is its staff.
In the case of the sale of industrial goods, the face of the company is the sales manager.
In the case of sales of services, the face of the company is the staff who directly provides services.
Therefore, internal marketing, both in the B2B market and in the service sphere,
has a fundamental importance.
It is important that the staff of the company is aware of the mission of the company,
its corporate strategy and the main principles of the marketing strategy.
Also, the common point is that marketing in the B2B and service spheres
is focused on long-term relations with the client.
In the service sphere and in the B2B sphere, marketing of relations is more and more often used.
The greater loyalty of the company's clients and the dependence of the client on the company and the company on the client
is also characteristic for both the service sphere and the B2B sphere.
You can also notice that the reputation of the company is an important point.
The reputation of the company is important both in the industrial market and in the service sphere.
Summing up, it is necessary to emphasize that when developing functional marketing strategies,
the company should use an integrated approach.
It is important that the functional marketing strategies do not contradict each other,
that they have a common goal and lead to a single strategy of positioning the company.
If within the framework of some functional strategy, the company is not able to meet the needs of the client,
the changes should be made to other functional strategies.
As a result, these changes should lead to a correction of the marketing strategy of the company as a whole.
Pay attention to the model of integrated marketing communications presented on the slide.
Here you can see that the sources of messages for the clients are the following.
The first is the user-oriented communication.
Here you can see that the sources of messages for the clients are not only the communication strategy.
First of all, marketing communication channels should provide a single message.
Messages from different channels should not contradict each other.
It is necessary to emphasize that the product, its distribution system and the price of the product
are also the sources of certain messages for the client.
The price of the product is also the source of certain messages for the client.
And the essence of these messages should be one.
These messages should not contradict each other.
If you look at the top of this scheme, you will see that the sources of messages for the clients are not only the marketing strategy,
but also other branches, such as top management, production, finance and management of staff,
and all messages coming from any area of the company's activities should have an integrated nature.
The client should not feel that he receives various messages from different sources.
In this case, the positioning of the company will be blurred.
Thank you for your attention. I wish you good luck in your studies.